I'm dr. Shuren at the Animal Clinic of
South Elgin and I'd like to talk about
decline of a cat
it's me decline requires a commitment
that your cat will be indoor only it's
not fair to declawed cat and then it
through outside where it would be
defenseless there are some people that
think that they'll leave the bat claws
on so that their cat will have some
defense when it goes outside cats are
not able to a karate kick and defend
themselves at all or climb a tree with
their bad claws so a commitment to have
a cat being indoor only is required and
having said that I think that creating a
positive relationship where your cat is
going to be a success in your home
requires that you can't does not do
destructive behaviors because there's
nothing that is more frustrating than
having a cat that is destroying your
home and that you really can't do
anything about
so like Spain which makes a cat a better
pet an indoor only cat whose natural
behavior is involves clawing of your
furniture and of your walls so if we can
manage that so that it's a win-win
situation I think everyone's a head and
your cat has a happy home then for its
life decline is a surgical procedure it
is done under general anesthesia and
there is a recovery period during which
point you're going to want to be very
careful to keep those feet quite clean
so that it heals and just like a spay or
a neuter incision will heal the
declawing incisions of course will heal
we want to declaw as young as possible
the younger cat is when we declaw the
faster the healing process I do have a
problem where people say well I'm going
to wait and see if my cat is destructive
and if they are disruptive then I will
be claw them and then we're faced with
declining a cat that's four or five
years old where people are very
frustrated that cat is ruined all their
furniture
they're just tired of it and now they
need to declawed the cats at an older
age which you know is frustrating for me
because then the Kandice going to have a
much longer recovery so I think we need
to recognize that most cats it is a
natural behavior to claw things so if we
take care of that early just like we do
spaying or neutering doing at a young
age we're actually being much more
humane to the cats in creating a very
positive relationship with our cats you
know people who have the contest
including myself they're very happy
healthy happy pets and don't have any
permanent psychological or other
problems with being declawed just like
they don't have permanent or
psychological problems with being spayed
or neutered so that's our recommendation
and this is our kitty Daisy and she is
an example of a very happy healthy cat
and she lives in our clinic she's a
member of our clinic family